normally when we talk about exotic cars
we picture sleek Italian beauties from
the likes of Ferrari or Maserati but
here's what we've got for you now an
exotic with a difference it's from West
Germany this is the four-wheel-drive
turbocharged Oddie Quattro it's a car
made for European rally driving and fat
American bank accounts now I know what
you're going to say the audit row looks
very similar to the $12,000 front drive
Oddie coupe and you're right you see it
makes good sense to keep European road
rally cars looking like normal
production machines since Racing does
sell cars fans can always buy
look-alikes at a reasonable price then
why is the Quattro at $35,000 each so
expensive well partially because only
2,000 will be made just enough to be
legal to race with only 500 coming to
the US but the main reason for the 23
grand differential is under the skin
what you get for all that loot is a
turbocharged 2.1 litre fuel injected 5
cylinder powerplant heavily based on the
one found in Audis 5,000 turbo sedan but
this engine delivers 30 more horsepower
for a total of 156 at 5,500 rpms it's
connected to a nearly conventional
5-speed transaxle which in turn is
connected to a very unconventional
differential that also transmits equal
power to the rear wheels the result a
full-time four-wheel-drive machine
designed to provide the extra traction
needed for a rough wet sometimes mud and
snow-covered Road rally course but as
any Jeep owner will tell you a
four-wheel drive vehicle can get stuck
if two wheels lose traction at the same
time but on the Quattro the rear wheels
can be locked to the transaxle to avoid
this embarrassment you simply pull this
- mounted lever at any speed you also
gain up to twice the hill climbing power
of a normal front drive Oddie
this is a car that can navigate the
worst roads we could
find paved or dirt with speed and
ability it's so willing that you
immediately think you're a lot better
driver than you actually are
coming over a rise at sixty miles an
hour
we were still able to take a 180 degree
bend dip at all without any threat of
rollover the 36 foot turning diameter is
just tight enough to ensure landing on
your wheels and not your top only five
inches of ground clearance also means a
low center of gravity McPherson struts
at all four wheels give the Quattro a
unique all independent suspension but if
you're getting the idea that the Quattro
is perfect even for normal driving
you're wrong at 43 miles per hour
through the slow speed handling slalom
it was a disappointment slowish steering
combined with too much power allowed a
lot of lesser cars to do much better on
the other hand if it's avoiding high
speed accidents crucial in a rally the
Quattro 71 mile-per-hour transit through
the emergency lane changing course set a
new motorWeek record with the Quattro
you're also buying speed and third gear
a time of four seconds flat in our 40 to
55 mile-per-hour passing test is
impressive
though not the best we've seen but try
it in second gear and a lightning-quick
2.8 seconds is almost frightening if
there were still doubt as to the
Quattro's might quite fast times of nine
seconds and sixty-six miles per hour
over our 500 foot course and 17 seconds
at 89 over the quarter-mile were
conformation enough but again the clutch
and the shifter are designed for
controlled reactions and wheel spinning
starts would only result in a stalled
engine about the only mystery we found
in the audit row were in its brakes the
disc all around were good but not great
from 30 with the four-wheel drive system
in a normal mode stops averaged 32 feet
with a mushy pedal and the locked up
mode stops for about 10 percent better
at 29 feet with no pull or fade the
Goodyear NCT tires like most European
made high-performance
tend to become powder and panic stops
there soft red compounds are made more
for handling stops from fifty five
averaged 133 feet with some front-wheel
skidding with the four-wheel drive
system in its locked up mode
not only where distances reduce to a
hundred twelve feet but the braking
abilities of all four wheels seem to be
more uniform as for fuel economy not
normally a strong suit for four-wheel
drive cars Audie claims an impressive
EPA city rating of seventeen and twenty
eight highway our motorWeek test loop
average was twenty two and the huge
twenty four gallon fuel tank means a
potential range of 670 miles per tank
full so the audit what row is an
exciting grand Turing machine that's
made everyone of us start to understand
why professional drivers risk life and
limb for speed it's not perfect for
everyday driving and most of us would be
more pleased with the audio at one third
to price but then that's the Quattro's
mission to be a rare ready to race rally
car for a chosen few and sell other
Oddie products to the many
you